---
layout: default
title: GoLang
---

h1. Go Lang

h3. Website
* "Official Website":http://golang.org/

h3. Packages
* "Libraries Written in Go":http://go-lang.cat-v.org/pure-go-libs
* "awesome-go":https://github.com/avelino/awesome-go - 另一个 Go 相关索引
* "第三方库索引":https://code.google.com/p/go-wiki/wiki/Projects
* "gom":https://github.com/mattn/gom - 包管理

h3. Framework
* "beego":http://beego.me/ - 除了基础的 MVC 结构外，还带有Cache，ORM，Session等多个库的支持
* "goji":https://goji.io/ - A web microframework for Golang
* "gonet":https://github.com/xtaci/gonet - 一款游戏服务器端框架
* "Gorilla":http://www.gorillatoolkit.org/ - a web toolkit
* "GoWeb":http://code.google.com/p/goweb/ - Lightweight RESTful web framework for Go
* "Macaron":https://github.com/Unknwon/macaron - Martini-style, but faster and cheaper
* "Martini":http://martini.codegangsta.io/ - Classy web development in Go. Surprisingly simple. Incredibly 
* "revel":http://robfig.github.com/revel/ - 借鉴的 java 和 scala 语言的 play 框架，推出较早
* "Web.go":http://webgo.io/ - The easiest way to create web applications with Go

h3. Tools
* "goimports":https://github.com/bradfitz/goimports - Tool to fix (add, remove) your Go imports automatically.
* "Godef":https://github.com/buaazp/Godef - 如果使用了GoSublime，可以用此插件实现跳转到定义

h3. Web Apps
* "Tattoo":https://github.com/shellex/tattoo - A simple blog system
* "gor":https://github.com/wendal/gor - Golang编写的静态博客引擎
* "wetalk":https://github.com/beego/wetalk - An open source project for Gopher community.

h3. Web Dev
* "pongo2":http://www.florian-schlachter.de/post/pongo2/ - 一款类 Django 的模版引擎

h3. ORM
* "beedb":https://github.com/astaxie/beedb
* "gorm":https://github.com/jinzhu/gorm
* "gorp":https://github.com/coopernurse/gorp
* "hood":https://github.com/eaigner/hood
* "qbs":https://github.com/coocood/qbs
* "upper/db":https://upper.io/db
* "XORM":http://xorm.io/

h3. WebSite
* "Golang中国":http://www.golangtc.com/
* "gocasts":https://gocasts.io/ - Go 视频教程
* "yougam":http://www.yougam.com/
* "Go友团":http://golanghome.com/

h3. References
* "Go入门指南":https://github.com/Unknwon/the-way-to-go_ZH_CN
* "Go编程基础(视频)":https://github.com/Unknwon/go-fundamental-programming
* "Go语言程序设计":http://www.amazon.cn/dp/B00DWCL8MM / "源码":http://www.qtrac.eu/gobook.html
* "Go Web 编程":https://github.com/astaxie/build-web-application-with-golang
* "Introducing Go by Example":http://mmcgrana.github.com/2012/10/introducing-go-by-example.html
* "Go实战开发":https://github.com/astaxie/Go-in-Action
* "Go语言半小时速成":http://www.aqee.net/go/a-tour-of-go
* "Wonderfo的资料收集":https://github.com/wonderfo/wonderfogo/wiki
* "GoByExample":https://gobyexample.com/
* "Go指南":http://tour.golanger.com/
* "qyuhen的学习笔记":https://github.com/qyuhen/book
* "A golang ebook intro how to build a web with golang":https://github.com/astaxie/build-web-application-with-golang/blob/master/preface.md
* "《Go语言标准库》The Golang Standard Library by Example":https://github.com/polaris1119/The-Golang-Standard-Library-by-Example

h3. Video Turorial
* "Go编程基础":https://github.com/Unknwon/go-fundamental-programming
* "Go名库讲解":https://github.com/Unknwon/go-rock-libraries-showcases

h3. GoSublime 常用快捷键
* Ctrl + 9 / Ctrl + b : 打开命令行
* Ctrl + dot, Ctrl + t : 打开测试面板
* Ctrl + dot, Ctrl + dot : 调出 GoSublime的所有功能
* Ctrl + dot, Ctrl + p : 调出所有已导入或未导入的 package，并可以删除已导入的 package
* Ctrl + dot, Ctrl + h : 查看当前内容定义和说明
* Ctrl + dot, Ctrl + d : 查看当前代码大纲
* Ctrl + dot, Ctrl + e : 语法检查